Hi everyone, my name is Lokke Bruyndonckx. I am a data engineer at Know.bi.
Today I will talk about our data lineage framework with Kettle and Neo4j.

I want to start my presentation with a small question, who among you had the pleasure
of starting on an existing kettle project with little or no technical documentation?
>>
So quite a lot.

Best case scenario, you would get something like this.
°°°
A list of all jobs and transformation, most of the time, the repository or a folder.

You could always query the information schema for some database information.
°°°

But what if, in your source system there is column or a field that will be deleted
and you will need to examine the impact.
What you could do is searching in your database for all tables using that column.
In my example the column ean will be deleted.
°°°
If you have decent naming conventions, then that might get you somewhere.

But if you need to adjust all transformations using this column, without decent technical
documentation you are a bit lost.

What if you could just simply retrieve the transformation names from a system.
°°°

Maybe even in a visual representation?
°°°
explenation verify with list.

When you have made all this adjustments, you need to reload some parts of the ETL to test
the solution.
°°° 
Whel in this case the jobs displayed will need to be executed

All queries executed during this presentation are results of this framework.

The lineage framework basically aims to stores everything. 
- Infrastructure
- Kettle/Hop execution logs
- db information
- query execution logs
°°° SCHEMA explenation

why graph databases:
- focus on relations
- path finding, graph algorithms allow to find all (known and unknown) relations between two data points, their centrality, connectedness, ...
--> SQL requires you to know *what* you are looking for, no such this as path finding


Whit the framework you will be able to track all information
°°°
But also the other way around, you are able to track your data through your whole process

The framework can also contain aws cloud information
°°°

Next steps will be adding git dependencies, active directory, ...



